GuessTips.txt: Tips for using GUESS with POPCO


popguess is a shell script for starting guess with extra POPCO python
extensions.

telguess<port#> is popguess waiting for a telnet connection from
popco.

--------------------------------

For the following Lisp commands, there may be some additional optional
arguments not listed here.

--------------------------------

This next one is defined in popco-fmt-guessML-general.lisp:

(write-person-graphs "path ending in /")
This writes out graphml files for GUESS, for each person, in the listed
directory.  Whether analogy networks are included depends on 
*do-report-analogy-nets-to-guess*.


--------------------------------

The following commands are defined in popco-fmt-guessCmds.lisp.  

(telguess path person) tries to start a guess process for a graphml
file named (concatenate 'string path person-name *guess-file-extension*)

(report-all) causes popco to want to connect with a guess process for
each member of the population.  It simply sets
*persons-reporting-to-guess* to contain all of the population's members.

(telguesses path) tries to run telguess for each person in
*persons-reporting-to-guess*.  

Currently this will only handle a few persons, because I (Marshall) haven't
figured out out how to pass parameters to the python scripts that I have
GUESS loading.  Instead, we simply have s separate GUESS shell script
with a separate python script for each different telnet port number.
(A possible future kludge: Automatically edit the python scripts as needed.)

[Despite a delay I inserted, sometimes this won't work if this is the
first time that GUESS has been run since reboot.  The delay in loading
all of the Java libs can cause Java or GUESS or Lisp to trip over
itself, and you'll get a wierd error.  Try it again, and it should
work.]

Once you've done the preceding, you can run:
        (start-reports-to-guess)
or
        (start-reports-to-guess persons)
The GUESS processes should change to indicate that they are connected to POPCO.
Then run
        (popco)
or
        (popco-plus-t number)
etc.

Note: Whether information on analogy networks are communicated to guess
processes depends on *do-report-analogy-nets-to-guess*.


